README.md, before:

# My Homelab

Keeping my networking/devops/sysadmin skills up to date. Also a fun hobby.
Going for low cost/low power solutions if possible.

## Current gear
![](/homelab_v1.jpg)

#### Infra

- 1x [MikroTik rb5009]() running routerOS v7
- 2x [Xiaomi router 4a gigabit]() flashed with [openWRT]() (check instructions for flashing)
- 1x [Raspberry Pi 1 model B 512 MB]()
- 1x 2014 macbook pro (i5/8GB/256GB)
- 1x NAS (still deciding what should I get)

#### End

- User machines : multiple phones, tablets, laptops, pc/consoles
- IoT/Smart home stuff : TV

## Services

#### Exposed :

- Wireguard supporting roaming clients ("[road warrior]()" config) and hiding my IP behind a cheap VPS

#### DMZ :

- DNS filtering (running on the raspberry)
- DNS over HTTPS, terminated on the rb5009
- Container orchestration (I use the mbp to run non criticial services, basically my toy low-powered server)


#### LAN :

- Proper firewalling
- Wifi QoS
- Segregated IoT/smart stuff


## References

- [how to firewall (French gov)](https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/uploads/2018/01/guide_preconisations-pare-feux-zone-exposee-internet_anssi_pa_044_v1.pdf)
- [openWRT docs]()
- [routerOS docs]()

Commit message:

added some links and next purchases section

README.md, after:

# My Homelab

Keeping my networking/devops/sysadmin skills up to date. Also a fun hobby.
Going for low cost/low power solutions if possible.

## Current gear
![dirty cardboard rack](/homelab_v1.jpg)

#### Infra

- 1x FTTLA 400/40 SFR modem
- 1x [MikroTik rb5009](https://mikrotik.com/product/rb5009ug_s_in) running routerOS v7 (see my [checklist]())
- 2x [Xiaomi router 4a gigabit](https://www.mi.com/fr/mi-router-4a-gigabit-edition/specs) flashed with [openWRT](https://openwrt.org/) (check my [instructions]() for flashing)
- 1x Raspberry Pi 1 model B 512 MB
- 1x 2014 macbook pro (i5/8GB/256GB)

#### End

- User machines : multiple phones, tablets, laptops, pc/consoles
- IoT/Smart home stuff : TV

#### Next purchases

- Replacing the mbp with something beefier (currently looking at 1L thin clients such as [this]() or [that]())
- Upgrading the raspberry to a gen 4 (maybe one day they will be available again for a reasonable price)
- Better storage solution (looking to build a ZFS system or a Ceph cluster, maybe going for ~10 TB usable)

## Services

#### Exposed :

- Wireguard supporting roaming clients ("[road warrior]()" config) and hiding my IP behind a cheap VPS

#### DMZ :

- DNS filtering (running on the raspberry)
- DNS over HTTPS, terminated on the rb5009
- Container orchestration (I use the mbp to run non criticial services, basically my toy low-powered server)


#### LAN :

- Proper firewalling
- Wifi QoS
- Segregated IoT/smart stuff


## References

- [how to firewall (French gov)](https://www.ssi.gouv.fr/uploads/2018/01/guide_preconisations-pare-feux-zone-exposee-internet_anssi_pa_044_v1.pdf)
- [openWRT docs]()
- [routerOS docs]()
